 Components Description:

1.	Arduino Uno:
Arduino Uno is an open-source microcontroller that is based on ATmega328p. It has a total of 14 pins. From these 6 pins can be used as an analog input. And we can interface various components to this microcontroller. And some other specifications like 16MHz ceramic resonator, USB connection and power jack. Moreover, we can also connect it to the 9V power supply and through USB cable. We can connect the Arduino using USB cable to the computer and export the script or programming file to the controller to run the program [2].


2.	Servo Motor:
Servo motor is an electric motor that which have integrated gears and shafts that we can control precisely using a microcontroller unit. We can use the shafts of the servo motor as a barrier in this project. We can rotate the shaft from 0 degrees to 180 degrees and at various shifts. Servo motors have a total of 3 wires. The red wire is power supply wire so, it should be connected to a 5V pin on the Arduino board. Black or Brown wire is usually used for the ground so, that wire should be connected to the GND pin of the Arduino board. And for the signal purpose, we use the third wire which is typical of yellow, orange, or white colour. This motor also works on the principle of PWM (pulse width modulation) [3].

 
3.	LCD Display:
Liquid Crystal Display (LCD) is a 16x2 digital display which has 16 columns and 2 rows. Using this component, we can display strings or numbers. For our project, we use this display to show the message on LCD. If the parking space is available, then it will display the ‘Welcome’ message and if the parking is full then it will display ‘Please come later’ message. We can also adjust the brightness of the LCD display using a potentiometer meter.
 

4.	Resistor:
A resistor is used to resist the flow of current in the circuit. In our project, we use resistors in series with LED to control the flow of current. The unit for the resistor is the ohm.
 

5.	RGB LED:
RGB LED is a combination of three colours in one LED i.e. Red, Green and Blue. In our project, we use this LED lights to give a signal to the driver. We are using only Red and Green colour to give signals while entering and exiting from the parking spot.
 

6.	Jumper Wires and Push Button:
Jumper wires a useful component to connect the circuit. These wires have connector pins at the end. These wires are normally used with the breadboard so we can change the connection easily. And Pushbuttons are simple buttons, we use this to get the signal from the driver as an entry and exit button.
   


7.	Breadboard:
 A breadboard is the most basic piece when it comes to building a prototype for any circuit. It is also referred as a solderless board because it requires no soldering to connect the wires.
 
•	ARDUINO IDE is needed to communicate to the Arduino board and perform operations.
